# Project-RPG
This is a text-based RPG game created in C++ where the player battles monsters in a turn-based system. 

## Functionality
The player can attack, defend, use items, or change equipment during their turn, while monsters respond with their own attacks. The game includes level scaling, coin rewards, and a shop where the player can buy weapons, armor, and items between battles. The game will function with a simple menu of decisions that allows the player to choose what they do, and the shop will work in a similar way, but it will display the available items to the player.

## Class usage
I have seperated the game into several classes in order to help better organize the entire flow of the coding process. I have created a total of 14 classes (Not all implemented yet), that divide the core fucnctions of the game. The Character class is the abstract class of the Player and Monster class, which all make up the fucntions of character stats, character actions, and character effects. Then I have a class Item which is the abstract for HealingPotion and Bomb, of which peratins to the funcionality of items withing the game and how they are used. I also have classes Weapon and Armor of which relates to the attributes the weapons and armor the character uses has. I have an Inventory class which is the class that essentialy keeps register of the items, weapons, and armor the player has, and allows the player to both add and remove more equipment as they see fit. I then have a class StatusEffects which is the abstract for the Poison and Stun classes, which all relate to effects that can be placed upon the enemy by the player based on the equipment they use. Then there is the shop class, which handles all of the functions relating to the use of coins to purchase items, weapons, and armor for the player. And finally, I have a game class which handles the gameplay loop of the game to make sure the game runs in and infinte loop like a rougelike RPG until the player dies and the game restarts. There is also a way to exit the game before dying, if the player inputs the letter 'q' or 'Q' during combat and combat only, the game will exit and stop.

## Game breaking situations
The situations in which the game might stop working is if the player tries to use an item that no longer exists, or if a player tries to buy something from the shop without having the necessary coins. To prevent these things from happening, I implememnted within the code checks for these requirements so that the game knows whether the action the player is trying to make is valid or not. For example, the game will has a line of code that when a player tries to buy something, it will check first to see if the player has enough coins first, then make the purchase. A game breaking situation is if the user tries to do an exit of the game at any point outside of combat, any input that is not the given number options will break the code.
